In this lecture, we are going to explore additional features that can be applied to our blocks.
WordPress has dozens of blocks with similar features.
For example, blocks can be aligned to take up the width of the page.
It's redundant to recode these features for each block to avoid repetitive code.
WordPress has a list of features that can be applied to any block.
This saves us the time of recreating these features for our block.
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to the BLOCK Support Documentation page.
We can enable features for our block by updating the block file.
The various features are documented on this page.
We won't have a chance to go through every single feature.
However, you're more than welcome to explore them after finishing this section, there are two features
we are going to look at.
The first feature is disabling HTML from our block.
Let's look at an example in another tab.
I have added the alert box block to the page on the toolbar.
There's an option for modifying the block with HTML by default.
This option is available for all blocks.
This feature can be dangerous.
Users can easily break a block by modifying the HTML.
This option can be disabled.
Let's disable this option for our block.
Another feature will implement in our block is wide aligning the block blocks can take up the entire
width of the page.
This option is available from the toolbar.
By default, it's disabled.
I think our block should support wide alignment.
Let's try supporting these features in your editor.
Open the block dot json file.
At the bottom of the file at an object called supports.
Inside this object, we can add a list of features to enable the HTML feature can be disabled by setting
the HTML option to false.
Next, let's add an option called a line with an initial value of true.
By setting the align option to true all alignment options will be enabled.
This means a block can be aligned left, center, right, wide and full.
You may not be interested in supporting all alignment options.
For example, we can limit the alignment to full by adding this option to the array.
Our block can support all alignments.
We don't need to use an array.
I'm going to revert this option to the original value.
There are more features we can enable, but let's keep it simple.
There's one more thing I want to mention before we test our work.
Open the style CSS file.
WordPress will add a class for the current alignment option.
We can select this attribute with our CSS.
In the CSS.
I'm selecting the element.
If the full option is selected, if the block is fully aligned against the page, this option will be
applied to our block.
And this example, I'm removing the border radius from the block.
Let's check out the block by refreshing the page.
Next.
And the alert box block to the page.
If we click on the toolbar, the option to edit the block with HTML is gone.
In addition, the alignment options have been added to the block without doing anything else.
These options are automatically available on our block.
We do not need to manage these values.
Keep in mind that the alignment option will not work on the front end.
The page has a sidebar which does not allow for full width.
In the next lecture, let's talk about variations for blocks.